# General Information

The Gods of Eldaris used walk the same ground as mortals before the five calamities. During that time all gods had to maintain an avatar on Eldaris, or have their powers on the material plane diminished. Now that they have been banished to their home planes, the gods must elevate once mortal aspects to act as their agents in the world. None of the gods are omnipotent or omniscient, with their powers and knowledge being restricted to their domain. Each god does however have their own home plane, where they have absolute power.

# Divine Classifications
- **Supreme Deity** - The classification reserved for Xemos, the creator of all.
- **Primordial**- Primordial gods are their domain, they are the sun in the sky or the sea at our shores. Primal, Intelligent, and Powerful. Most were created during the forging, but primordial gods wax and wane in strength based on the worship they receive and the vastness of their domain. Through varying circumstances few primordial gods have been born, and even fewer have faded into nothing.
- **Divine** - Divines were once thought to be a stage between mortality and godhood, but as with many things the truth is more complex, though many still see them as demigods that ascended from mortality. Divines are powerful beings who once, through an ageless existence, acted as guides and leaders to their people. Divines have no clerics, but may be followed by paladins. Divines cannot be harmed by mundane weapons, only the strongest magical spells and weapons can wound a Divine. Even then the wounds are fleeting, making them at worse an inconvenience to the Divine in question. Many Divines however have fallen over the years to the few things that can truly harm them. Most fell to other Divines through war, others to powerful mortals with specially designed artifacts, and a select few fell when they earned the ire of a true god. After the five calamites, all the remaining Divines fell into a deep sleep, from which they may never wake. 
- **Transcendent** - Transcendent gods were once thought to have been divines that found the secret to Godhood. That theory with the rise of Imrag and Hadren has been proven untrue, as neither were divine. The only commonly accepted rule in modern Eldaris is that Transcendent gods were once mortals who through processes unknown achieved Godhood. Another popular theory is that a Transcendent gods domain must be the people it transcended. There are only three known transcendent gods, Udremm The First God of Dragons, Imrag The Second God of Dragons, and Hadren the Crippled God of Giants. Transcendent gods have  the ability to have clerics and may be followed by paladins, like any true god. Unlike Primordial gods, Transcendent gods cannot elevate aspects.

[[index]]